Feedback and the Inferences we have made

We posted on the National Gardening Association forum, and we received multiple responses.  Bren Haas, one lifelong gardening expert, revealed that there was some ambiguity with what our device actually was.  Noticing her old age, we realized that the age of our potential customers can vary significantly.  So, in the development of our website and our presented information in emails and on Facebook, we meticulously ensured that our presentation is precise and clear.  Upon further discussion with Ms. Haas, she emphasized that she always carried her smartphone with her while she tends her garden.  Thus we can make a generalization that gardeners, even of her age group, are willing to use new technologies.  Lynn, another gardener, said that beginners and experts alike would benefit from our product.  This means that our customers can range from young to old and from beginners to experts.

Additionally, we posted on the Garden Web forum claimed to be “the internet’s largest home and garden community.” After describing our product idea and the functionality we were met with responses from gardeners. One posed the question of other devices and products that are currently on the market and how we differentiate our product from those. Thus, we learned the importance of showing how our product is different from known devices such as Edyn (which is currently on Kickstarter). We responded by emphasizing that our product can work both outdoors and indoors, on specific plants giving personal treatment and monitoring for a specific plant. We also stressed the low cost relative to other devices as well as how easy the setup for WaterMe really is unlike other complex and intricate installations. 

Regarding the product itself, one blogger responded asking primarily about the actual product hardware. Quote below.
"Can pets get into the device or dislodge it easily from the potted plant? Can it be used outdoors? Batteries or plug in or neither?
Originally, we were planning on having the device lay on or beside the pot/plant and have the sensor inserted into the soil. After seeing this response, we decided to add a clip to the WaterMe! device that will get a tight grip on the lip of the pot containing the plant. This way, the device is not dislodgeable. We also learned that there is interest in using our product outdoors, so we decided to put together a more durable frame that will be suitable for both outdoors and indoors.

Originally, we thought we had everything covered and that our device was going to be readily accepted by a wide range of customers. After getting this feedback though, we realized that there were a lot of things that we were still missing. We made these edits and we learned that even as inventors, our perspective is very limited and we were able to improve our product with customer feedback.

We also used facebook analytics for the facebook page and google analytics for the waterme website.
Currently waiting on responses from emails to blog writers and responses from our waterme updates from our email list.
https://www.google.com/analytics/web/?utm_medium=email&utm_source=newbie&utm_campaign=newbieemail3&utm_content=en_us#report/visitors-overview/a57237601w90874018p94533725/%3F_u.date00%3D20141206%26_u.date01%3D20141206/
^^ google analytics link
facebook analytics go to later
