Our original idea was to build an automatic water distribution system for large gardens and farms that connects to a cloud which controls the watering schedule and facilitates how much water is provided for the plants. This cloud would connect to users’ smartphones and provide the user with a dirt-free gardening experience. 
We then realized that there are already several products that are quite similar to our concept so we came to conclusion that we had to alter our direction. We were very passionate about this concept so we didn’t want to completely shut down the idea. After some brainstorming we realized that the domestic gardening space has not yet been breached and is open for our creativity. 
We created WaterMe! Like our original concept, this device wirelessly connects to a cloud and sends the user real time updates on the plant’s environment. The WaterMe! algorithms automatically put together a watering schedule that is most efficient for each individual plant and the device provides users with crucial information about a plant’s environment that they would otherwise lack. Using that information, our smartphone app will then remind users when a plant needs to be watered and how to care for it.  All the user needs to do is select a plant from our database and WaterMe! does the rest.
First, we posted on various gardening blogs and forums. We were met with trouble as we were soon banned due to advertising terms and agreements of the website. So we adjusted both our approach and posts so that we could better communicate who we were and what our idea idea was. We managed to receive a few responses providing feedback. However, of the few even fewer proved useful as they did not provide the answers and opinions we were looking for. Rather than respond as a customer, some of the bloggers discussed our product’s overall market appeal, which is not at all what we sought for in market research. We then tried to increase WaterMe’s online presence by creating a facebook page and website in tandem with our google survey (for forming the email list). Our facebook page and website only were viewed significantly (upwards of 100 views) when we posted on our facebooks. Disappointingly, only around five legitimate people signed up to be on the email list via the google beta survey. Using facebook analytics and google analytics we also learned about the habits of our users while on our online sites. From the information provided such as the brevity our users spend on our website, we learned the importance of displaying our information to catch the consumer’s eye instantaneously. In an effort to increase views and participants to our email list, we sent emails to various blogs and websites such as the Huffington Post and Buzzfeed as well as gardening websites. Furthermore, we sent emails to the two-three people that did sign up for our beta and we are also awaiting responses. Moving forward, we would continue the communication with our beta testers as well as presenting our product differently on our website and through different mediums. Then we would launch the kickstarter page after ensuring an internet presence and creating an internet buzz about WaterMe. 
